Blog post: Changes in setup entity platforms with group integration (#2157)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: docs/2024-04-29-group-integration.md

---
author: Jan Bouwhuis
authorURL: https://github.com/jbouwh
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/7188918?s=96&v=4
title: Changes in setup entity platforms with group integration
---

## Changes in setup entity platforms with group integration

> By default the `group` integration allows entities to be grouped. If the default `ON`/`OFF` states for an entity default to `on` and `off`, then `grouping` is supported by default. The setup changes tough for Entity platforms that can be grouped but have alternative states, e.g. `cover` (`open`/`closed`) or `person` (`home`/`not_home`), or platforms that are meant to be excluded, such as `sensor`. These entity platforms need to implement `async_describe_on_off_states` in the `group.py` module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the `group` integration allows entities to be grouped. If the default `ON`/`OFF` states for an entity default to `on` and `off`, then `grouping` is supported by default. The setup changes, though, for Entity platforms that can be grouped but have alternative states, e.g., `cover` (`open`/`closed`) or `person` (`home`/`not_home`), or platforms that are meant to be excluded, such as `sensor.` These entity platforms must implement `async_describe_on_off_states` in the `group.py` module.
```

> In `async_describe_on_off_states` the `domain` needs to be the first argument passed to the `registry` methods `on_off_states` and `exclude_domain`. When registering alternative `ON`/`OFF` states with `registry.on_off_state`, besides the `ON` states, also the default `ON` state needs to be passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `async_describe_on_off_states,` the `domain` needs to be the first argument passed to the `registry` methods `on_off_states` and `exclude_domain`. When registering alternative `ON`/`OFF` states with `registry.on_off_state`, in addition to the `ON` states, the default `ON` state needs to be passed.
```

### Example registering alternative states

New signature for `registry.on_off_states`:

```python
    @callback
    def on_off_states(
        self, domain: str, on_states: set[str], default_on_state:str, off_state: str
    ) -> None:
        """Register on and off states for the current domain."""
    ...
```

> Example `group.py` for the `vacuum` entity platform registering alternative `ON`/`OFF` states. Note the the first `ON` state now is considered to be the default `ON` state.

Reviewer: > Note the the first `ON` state now is considered to be the default `ON` state.
Should we show the example with kwargs ?
Should the code only use kwargs?

Reviewer: This may not matter though as TBH I don't think there are many CCs using this and kwargs only does have a performance hit so there would be a good argument that its not worth changing

Author: Added comments to the arguments in the example. As all args are required it seems not to make sense to use kwargs.
